Unfortunately, this doesn't quite work.
So if you have a thing marked as a const
in C, first of all, depending on the C
compiler, some of them will or
will not let you use these in a switch.
But even assuming that you're
using one of the C compilers,
it does allow you to use
a constant in a switch.
This still won't work, because
unfortunately, one of the rules of const
is that if you're using it at like the top
level of the program, you're actually
just not allowed to call arbitrary
functions like toint at that time,
you just can't do it.
One of Zig's banner features is
called comptime, comptime and
Zig does a whole bunch of different
things, and it's short for compile time.
One of the cool things that it does is
that it allows you to basically just run
zig functions at compile time like this.
So in zig, this would actually just
work fine, but in C, unfortunately,
it does not.
So basically what we want is we wanna
make a constant at compile time.
So, one of the ways that we can work
around this is by converting it from
a constant to something else.
So here is an example of our
code from the previous section.
We said like listening on local host port,
whatever.
We didn't actually do this in the example,
but a really obvious thing that
you might wanna do is to make
a concept for the port so
that you can just change it in one place
instead of having to go and make sure that
the string that we're printing out is,
you know, coordinated with that thing.
We'd have to change it in two places,
that would be annoying,
let's just define it as a constant.
Another thing you can do is
you can use pound define.
Now so far, we've only seen one
instruction that starts with a pound,
which is pound include,
which we've been using for imports,
importing libraries and stuff.
Everything that starts with a pound
is a preprocessor directive.
And what that means is essentially that,
C actually has these two
distinct phases to the compiler.
First, there's the preprocessor,
which basically runs before
the actual compiler proper.
And the preprocessor's job is to
essentially to just sort of copy and
paste a bunch of strings together,
different parts of your file.
It has very, very minimal logic that
you can actually run, we'll see a tiny,
tiny bit of that later, but
it's not like a full programming language.
Whereas zig, one of the design things
of zig was to get rid of the concept of
preprocessor directives and
instead just be like, yeah,
just just write more Zig code.
Just write the language, and
then you can just mark it as like,
this is running at compile
time versus at runtime.
But C didn't have that,
so C is basically, okay,
one of the things you can do is you
can say, pound, define port and 8080.
Now what does this mean?
Well, very similarly to how pound
include meant take this library and
just copy and paste the entire thing
into here exactly as if I had copy
pasted it by hand in here.
Pound define, same thing, it's basically
like everywhere you see a port,
every time I reference this,
like in my code,
copy-paste this exact thing
right here into the source code.
So literally this code right here
it is as if, instead of P-O-R-T,
I had written 8080 that's what this does.
So this is not a type checked constant
that's gonna give me an error if I mess
up, no, no, no, no, none of that.
It's just like, yeah, this is exactly the
same thing as if I had written 8080 right
here, instead of P-O-R-T,
that is what pound defined does.
Now you can also take this a step further
and write functions with Conde fine.
So the way these functions
work is essentially you say,
here's the name of the function.
In this case, I've called it four
char because it takes four chars and
then does the exact bit wide,
bit shifting and bitwise, or
trick that we were doing
with HTML earlier.
The backslash, by the way,
is just C's way of saying,
I want the thing that I'm defining
here to go on a different line,
you have to be kind of careful with
new lines and stuff in these pound
defines because they don't have curly
braces delivering them functions do.
So this backslash is basically
a way of saying, yeah,
just pretend this was on
the previous line [COUGH] and
essentially what this will do is,
much how P-O-R-T gets substituted in.
This is basically saying, everywhere
you call this preprocessor macro,
that's what this is called,
this is a preprocessor macro.
Passing whatever arguments you want for
these things,
it's gonna be exactly as if you had
each of those arguments in these
different positions,
followed by whatever is surrounding them.
So it's just a little bit more of
an advanced substitution, but again,
this is all just happening
before the compiler even starts.
So when the compiler sees your code,
it is as if you had not even
written these in the first place.
It's just yeah,
these things are just like already copy
pasted in at every single
place that you use these.
So [COUGH] at this point we can now say,
okay, cool.
Constant HTML equals a four char,
and now we actually are working
around that limitation of not being
able to do this at compile time.
And as a bonus, if you are in one
of those situations where you're
using a compiler that does not
support constant for this,
on some Linux distributions that I tried,
it didn't support it out the box.
Some did, some didn't, but anyway, if
you're using one of the ones that doesn't,
then instead of this constant, you can
just do another pound to find right here.
And then you've worked around that too
because you're basically defining this
thing to be equal to
this pre-processor macro.
So at the end of the day, you're ending up
with this entire thing being substituted
every single time you reference HTML,
CSS, or JS.
Now that might be kind of
conceptually clunky, but
from a code readability perspective,
again,
if we are doing this very silly hack that
is not really strictly necessary and maybe
more of a performance optimization that is
reasonable for a thing on a workshop, but
also maybe kinda nice excuse to learn
about bit shifts and preprocessor macros.
But if you're doing this type of thing,
this is actually quite
a reasonable way to do it.
It does give you, at least when I'm
looking at this code right here,
HTML convert this thing
to the integer thing.
I can see that it's the right letters
are here, it's a lot easier to debug
than back when we were dealing with
these weird hard coded numbers.
And this still lets me use these
things in a switch statement.
Cool, and yeah, so this will result in
exactly the bits in memory that we want,
and then we get to do all
the nice comparisons, okay.
So this is going to be not only nicer to
read, but also quite fast, because, again,
compared to the stir comp way, which,
honestly, if I were just writing this for
personal use, I would probably
go with the stir comp way.
I wouldn't bother to do this, but in
addition to allowing me to use an actual
switch statement on this, it is gonna
run very fast because we aren't having
to go through in March one, bite at
a time through each of these, okay?
Worst noting though that if you are using
a programming language that's not c,
almost certainly this is what is actually
the equivalent of what your language
Just doing.
If you have a language that supports
saying extension double equals png,
this is almost certainly
what that's compiling to.
It's compiling to the much less
performant and much less, I don't know,
nicer for the CPU representation,
it's doing much, much more operations.
And at the end of the day, the fundamental
reason that we're able to get better
performance in sea here is that we are
doing some pretty heinous memory tricks.
We're reinterpreting these bytes,
we're adding these extra zero bytes
if necessary to the extension over here
we're doing these pre-processor macros.
All this stuff, we're reinterpreting the
ones and zeros to be integers at runtime.
Only if they happen to be four bytes or
less,
we're relying on the domain knowledge
that in the particular case of
a static HTTP server, everything that
we need happens to be under four bytes.
And thankfully.woff happens to
be application octet stream,
which is the default we want anyway, all
of these things, you can look at that, and
you can say,
this is a giant pile of hacks.
This is all very brittle, why don't you
just use stir, comp, a normal programmer,
which is all very fair.
But the point is, with C,
this is there if you need it,
if you're trying to write something like
postgres or an operating system, and
you really, really need that absolute
last tiny drop of performance.
Because something like this
is in a really hot loop, and
it's the stakes are a lot higher than
a silly little static HTTP server.
This is one of the reasons that C has the
absolute highest performance ceiling you
can do tricks like this if you need to,
not saying you need to all the time,
but if you really, really need to, and
you want to just be the fastest
thing you possibly can be.
These type of tricks are things
that C lets you do, and
this is where the trade-off of all of
the downsides we've seen, and we've seen
plenty of downsides of C's memory unsafety
and all the stuff that it lets you do.
At the end of the day, if you're trying to
think back to some of these original games
that ran on PCs and the 90s that were
doing things with graphics that people
thought was just totally wild, quake and
stuff doom, they were doing a lot of these
kinds of tricks, and in some cases,
even going further to do.
Do assembly language tricks just to
squeeze every last drop of performance
they could out of the processors.
And the results they got
were really amazing.
If you want to do the most hardcore
performance optimization stuff you can
possibly imagine, there's this whole world
of this kind of stuff that exists in C
that most high level languages just never
even get into because it's wildly unsafe
[LAUGH] and
that is the downside that comes with it.